To be able to re-use one and the same io object that manages the same connection that is exposed,
let's create a new file. I'll name it socket.js, the name is up to you though
and in that file here, I will create a new variable which I'll name io
and then I'll export with the nodejs export syntax, an object, in that object I want to have two
methods, two functions. The init method
and this is how you define a function in nodejs syntax, you have that key here like in a normal object
then a colon and then the value and the value here is a function which receives the http server as an
argument
and in that function body, I'm using an arrow function here of course, in that function body, you require
socket.io,
so just as we do it in app.js here, we require socket.io and we pass the server to the function
that gets exposed by the exported object or by that exported package.
So here I also execute this function and I pass in that http server I expect to get here as an argument.
Now the result of that is our io object which I'll store in that io variable here and then I can return
io like this in the init function. In app.js,
I can now require /socket,
so my own socket.js file
and there I will call init, this function
I just defined in there, so this function, I call that and there I still pass my server because in that
function I expect to get that server. The other code here does not change, it stays the way it is.
In socket.js I now just add another function,
so another key value pair in that exported object,
so let's add a comma and then I'll name this get io,
the name is up to you just as it was for init
by the way. Here I don't expect any arguments but in the function body, I'll check if io does not exist,
so if this variable is undefined in which case I'll throw a new error, socket.io not initialized
or something like that.
If I make it past this if check, I know that io has been initialized and then I will just return it.
Now with this,
we're managing the connection in this file and we can import this file in all the places of our app where
we need to be able to interact with io, like our feed.js
controller. So let's continue with that next.